---
layout: post
title: "Parkour / Freerunning / Movement"
img: parkour.jpg
tags: parkour
aid: 5fd38d56
---

I always was that kind of guy who just *has to* jump over things, climb stuff and find physical challenges whenever being outside. Gone photographing, spotting some stones ... *"Hold the camera please, I want to jump over these."* And [so I did](/assets/img/blog/parkour2.jpg). *"Do you think I could do this with one jump from standing position?"*, *"Wait, let's try to climb up there!"* ... you get the idea. ; )

Yet, what I didn't have was some kind of sport that I did. As a kid I was in a gymnastics club. I quit at the age of 12, I guess, and then, for a long, long time ... nothing. At 19 I tried to get into tricking but it didn't really work out. Tricking to me still is one of the &mdash; if not the — most beautiful expression of movement, though.  
Early this year I got into slacklining, which I still like a lot and do occasionally. But what got me super excited the moment I started was parkour. Or freerunning, or whatever may describe it best what I'm doing. I really don't care a lot about definitions and categories. As long as it isn't necessary to rate or compare within a discipline you don't need to restrict yourself to a certain set of operations or comply to any regulations. And since I'm not driven by the thought *"I wan't to be good at parkour"* but instead *"I wan't to do what makes me happy and what I think is fun"* I just do that: moving and improving — in whatever way I like to. : )

What I find particularly interesting regarding parkour is the philosophy that developed around it. First there is the thought *"never stop playing"* and I couldn't identify more with it. Second there is the idea of creatively using (urban) spaces which I really like. It makes parkour kind of an art that's reaching into the spehre of everyday public life. Third there is this search for efficiency in not only movement but also thinking. It's really a whole bunch of good ideas and interestinng thought that comes along with parkour.

On top of that — one last incredibly important thing &mdash; the people are great. From what I've experienced so far, people that are into parkour tend to be extremely supportive, nice, open minded and fun. You'll get help if you need, everyone will encourage each other to try new things. It's just a great environment that supports one's authenticity.

Thus at the moment I'm a bit obsessed with parkour, freerunning, movement in genereal. May it remain like this for a long, long time. : )