---
layout: post
title: "Arch and Wacom"
img: arch.jpg
tags: linux hardware
aid: 317f2497
---

Arch Linux! Wacom! W00t! &lt;3 :D

Okay ... one thing at a time ... After a good year of using Ubuntu I now switched to [Arch Linux](http://www.archlinux.org). The reason being that I'll be forced to build a system fitting to my needs.  
Thanks to the great beginner's guide on archlinux.org I managed to set up a basic system pretty fast and I didn't even run into that much problems. ^^ At the moment I'm using awesome as a window manager — which, btw, is absolutely doing justice to its name —, emelFM2 as my filemanager (also a great component), sxiv for viewing images and apart from that the common stuff that I already used before ... Firefox, VLC, GIMP, XAMPP, etc.

The thing that caused the most problems so far and, additionally, the second topic in this blog entry, is my new Wacom Bamoo Pen tablet. I chose a Wacom tablet because I knew about the [Linux Wacom Project](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/linuxwacom). Unfortunately the tablet I got is a relatively new model and isn't yet supported by the standard linuxwacom package you get from the repositories. Thus I had to use a package from the AUR, patch it and manually change some stuff — which I managed to do because of the great help I got from some guys from #archlinux.de. : )

So ... I now got a new, awesome system and a nice drawing tablet. The only thing I'm missing now is drawing skills. :D But that's fine, I got the tablet mainly for postprocessing of photos and doing stupid things on imageboards. ^^