---
layout: post
title: "Raspberry Pi + Lego Case :3"
img: rpi.jpg
tags: hardware linux lego
aid: 0b5c23be
---

Maybe not that interesting, but I felt like this had to appear here. I got my RPi in July and recently started to build a Lego case for it. The one you see on the picture ([fullsize](/assets/img/blog/rpi0.jpg)) was initially just "find as much red parts as possible and use the other colors to create a prototype".  
After a while I started to replace strange colors (brown, green, pink, etc.) and black as well as grey bricks in my prototype with similar parts in blue, white or yellow. What you see is how far I got ... a few flat parts and a bigger "window" for the LEDs are still to be found. The completely red version is far from complete. I'd need 9 1x1 flat bricks with a flat surface on the top — not sure if we have that much.

Anyway — the Pi is up and running, serving mostly as an IRC client at the moment; guess it'll have the honor to take care of one or the orther cronjob in the near future and offer some web based "services" for me.

Miscellaneous information: I got the idea to build a Lego case from [Biz's LEGO case](http://www.raspberrypi.org/archives/1354). I used pants for my case because they leave a bit more space inside. Everything located above a slot is fixed to the lid, so the Pi can be taken out once the case is opened withough the need to take it apart. I noticed that my case might not leave enough space for an RCA plug but I don't plan to use it anyway. I use Arch Linux ARM. [Here](/assets/img/blog/rpi1.jpg)'s a picture of my Raspberry Pi next to a raspberry pie.