---
layout: post
title: "VZ Netzwerke message backup"
img: vzmb.jpg
tags: programming
id: 5672bf6f
---

A few days ago I read that the *VZ Netzwerke* (a group of dying social networks once popular in Germany) will be renamed to or restarted as *idpool*. Reading about those networks alone reminded me that ever since I stopped using them I wanted to backup all my messages. Hearing that the platform will be undergoing serious change some time soon made me take immediate action.

I wrote a Perl script to extract the messages and store them in json-files. To view the messages I wrote a simple web interface in PHP.  
I ran into some problems with SSL connections which is why the script uses a session ID instead of an e-mail address and password as a launch parameter. Additionally, when dealing with large amounts of messages the script decided to freeze after a certain amount of parsed messages, so I wrote a second version using threads to parse messages and in case they freeze simply parse the message again. This second version, however, is painfully slow because of my crappy implementation — but since it does a job that only has to be done once I'm fine with that. :D

Concerning the web interface one thing was very important for me: having messages and answers that belong together being displayed at the same place. A thing that the *VZ Netzwerke* never offered, you only have your in- and outbox. Separated. Absolutely terrible if you want to read an old conversation again. So ... my web interface shows all messages to and from a person at one place. : )

In case you'd like to backup your messages too, here you go: [vz_messageparser.tar.gz](static/dl/vz_messageparser.tar.gz)  
Run `perl vzmp.pl studi|schueler|mein <sessid>` (use vmzp_crap.pl if neccessary) and view the index.php (webserver required ofc) as soon as the script finished.

<!-- ytdd:Here is a video showing how it works.:Mm_LEnnp-mE -->