---
layout: post
title: "漢字 — 200+"
img: kanji_checkpoint_2.png
tags: japanese kanji
id: 6a66c49c
---

Whew ... at last. Turns out a lot of free time doesn't seem to be the best thing for my learning efforts. I tend to approach other time consuming stuff that wouldn't be possible alongside lectures and end up having a hard time keeping up with making progress with my Japanese. D:

Looking at my [Anki stats](static/img/blog/anki_stats_130903.png) for the last month: the mostly hidden larger gap responsible for that first huge bar was a 5 day trip to Munic for a parkour jam, next gap was a spontaneous programming project iirc (something that doesn't show up in my Google calendar at least) and the third gap was Ludum Dare 27, a video game development competition.

Anyway: what I'm experimenting with right now is different methods for choosing which kanji to learn next. For some time I sticked with the JLPT kanji listed [here](http://tangorin.com/common_kanji), but it seems to take me longer and longer to find good candidates. I consider switching to going through easy reading material online and adding stuff I don't know yet. Another option would be using some frequency list.

Apart from that everything's going well. Creating mnemonics is still fun. :) Oh and when learning with Anki I now write out readings in katakana instead of hiragana from time to time — helps preventing that I forget those bastards. :D

Again, for the sake of documentation, these are the [kanji I know so far](static/dl/kanji_checkpoint_2).

