---
layout: post
title: "松山大学〔九〕"
img: myj15_9.jpg
tags: japanese travel education MYJ15
id: 57677323
---

Nine months in Japan; another review:

Looking back at what happened since the last review I wondered ... did I forget to post once?  
Apparently I didn't. During the last 31 days:

* A friend from Germany got hospitalized during his visit to Matsuyama, which led to me being Japanese/German interpreter for about a week. I spent a night in the intensive care unit, got to see all kinds of fancy medical machinery at work — interesting stuff.
* I got to know new people working with guest houses in Matsuyama and participated in a pilgrimage event ([#52+53](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shikoku_Pilgrimage)) organized by the aforementioned.
* Spent some quality time with friends and went out more that usual.
* Formed a nice group with people from the game development seminar I take part in. Since I'm *"the guy with the programming experience"* I introduced the rest of the group to Git, Lua and [LÖVE](http://love2d.org/) (the framework we agreed on using). Experiencing how Japanese approach group work and especially decision making is quite fascinating.
* Established new connections to a few exchange students. (I used to focus on spending time with Japanese.)
* Established new connections to a few Japanese (potential tandem language learning parnter, people interested in intercultural exchange, etc.).
* Did some indoor bouldering which I hadn't done in ... maybe a year or so.
* Gave a presentation about Germany at a local elementary school.
* Went to see [fireflies](static/img/blog/myj15_add16.gif) on a whim one night.
* Started preparations for my last month in Japan (during which I won't stay in the university's dorm) which meant getting a working permission, establishing some connections for potential daywork etc.

All alongside the usual university stuff. Well ... no signs of overload yet. And therefore:

On to the next month!