---
layout: post
title: "国立情報学研究所〔一〕"
img: nii_01.jpg
tags: japanese travel education programming research NII17 JAmonthly
aid: e3b2107a
---

&gt; [On to the ... <span style="text-decoration: line-through;">oh wait. :(</span>](/a/17d61d5b)  
NEXT MONTH!

I'm back to Japan. First month passed. Assembling the bits and pieces of a functioning everyday life. :)  
Register as a resident, set up a bank account, get a bicycle, find a supermarket to frequent, get a feeling for monthly costs and how much you can spend on what, connect with new people, ... I have the feeling I'm almost set up. One of the few things I have yet to manage is get into a stable Anki routine. I've been powering through over 300 cards today to finally get back to 0 after a meager 14/30 days studied since I arrived.

A collection of noteworthy and/or random things:  

* general
    * [here's where I spent my time](/assets/img/blog/nii_add_00_heatmap_h.jpg)\*, and because that's not saying much [here's a closer look at Tokyo](/assets/img/blog/nii_add_01_heatmap_t.jpg)\*<br>(\*it's actually the places where I had a wifi connection or [was using Goole maps](https://github.com/theopolisme/location-history-visualizer))
    * at times I felt like a student that just moved out of mom's and has to figure out how the world works again (googling where to buy stuff, how to cook stuff, etc.)
    * Halloween at <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="Shibuya"><span class="inner">渋谷</span></span></span> [was cazy](/assets/img/blog/nii_add_03.jpg)
    * I visited the <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="Printing Museum"><span class="inner">印刷博物館</span></span></span> and got to [print *sirtetris* with movable type](/assets/img/blog/nii_add_04.jpg) (also see image above)
    * folks at the share house are nice :)
* at the institute
    * the day after my arrival I got my scholarship for several months in cash. Having the equivalent of about 4.5k € in cash lying around made me kind of paranoid and sped up the process of me getting a bank account.
    * Mac and Windows users are required to install Sophos Anti Virus. Linux users are left in peace :3
    * overhearing other grad students talk about and plan their "first time in Japan" adventures is entertaining
    * the elevators say <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="&quot;Thank you for your hard work today&quot;"><span class="inner">「本日はご苦労様でした」</span></span></span> when you get out on the first floor after 5 p.m.
    * cafeteria lunch [is tasty](/assets/img/blog/nii_add_02.jpg)

All in all, I'm quite satisfied. The only thing that kind of bothers me is the lack of any easily quantifiable progress with my Japanese. I pick up and write down new words and phrases, but constantly being behind with my Anki studies prevented me from integrating them into my deck. Oh and also ... my Kindle app won't let me log into my German account so I can't access the Japanese book I was reading back in Germany. -.-

Anyway, the few things to complain about are *mostly harmless*, soo ...

On to the next month!
