---
layout: post
title: "国立情報学研究所〔四〕"
img: nii_04.jpg
tags: japanese travel education programming research NII17
aid: 1705b50f
---

Month four — one thrid left; review:

Anki ok. Sport insufficient. Here's the interesting stuff:  

* general
    * <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="gyōza (dumplings)"><span class="inner">餃子</span></span></span> and stuff from <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="ORIGIN (bentō chain that also has a buffet)"><span class="inner">オリジン</span></span></span> found their way into my food routine
    * helped a crying little boy out in the street find his mum
    * witnessed the following manifestation of cuteness:<br>3 small kids, two of them in bear costumes, waiting for the train with their mum<br>announcement for the next train to come in a few minutes: <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="&quot;... . This train has 10 wagons.&quot; (wagons = &quot;ryō&quot;)"><span class="inner">「...。この電車は10両です。」</span></span></span><br>kids: <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="&quot;10 seconds? 10! 9! 8! ...&quot; (seconds = &quot;byō&quot;)"><span class="inner">「10秒？10！9！8！...」</span></span></span><br>but there was no train when they reached 0. :'D 
    * was stopped by police for riding my bike at night without a light (mount is loose, I support it w/ rubber bands, that day the bands ripped on my way *to* work so I put they light in my bag); they were *extremely nice* — had a good chat
    * got the [Dogen approved verification](https://youtu.be/oXLP6IGmdZs?t=1m4s) that my Japanese it about as good as that of a native first grader — was asked <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="&quot;So ... you&#39;ve been living in Japan for quite some time?&quot;"><span class="inner">「長いんですか？日本は」</span></span></span> by abovementioned policemen and the next day when getting my hair cut :3
    * saw a performance of the <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="Ome Sōgō High School taiko club"><span class="inner">東京都立青梅総合高等学校 和太鼓部</span></span></span> which was awesome
    * spent almost a week in Kyōto and two nights in Nagoya
    * the local sentō had a "chocolate bath" (cacao butter mixed into the water) around valentine's day which was geat ^_^
    * saw a few people from Matsuyama again while they were in Tōkyō  
    * a bug I found\* in Pokemon GO got [some coverage](static/img/blog/nii_add_06.jpg) by blogs/YouTube channels<br>following how the story spread from a dedicated subreddit to more and more general sites was quite interesting — especially low effort *"news posts"* that got things wrong were amusing<br>\(*to be precise I found something that works on some devices and a fellow redditor found a variation that works on all devices)
* at the institute
    * the conceptual stuff I mentioned last time is finally done and got some good feedback
    * was able to integrate learning a few neat new [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) related things into my work
    * stumbled upon a PhD thesis titled [The Presentation of Self on a Decentralised Web](https://github.com/rhiaro/thesis) — can I please take a week off from life and explore this?
    * got into and am getting back out of eating dinner somewhere close to work to then head back and work some more
    * the elevators say <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="&quot;Good morning&quot;"><span class="inner">「おはようございます」</span></span></span> at 8:26 a.m. — so maybe the interval is from 8 to 9?

Good times. More.

On to the next month!