---
layout: post
title: "東京大学〔二〕"
img: utyo22_2.jpg
tags: japanese travel education programming research UTYO22
aid: aa700f00
---

Seamlessly continued the everyday adventures, weekend trips, and occasional purchases.

To name one development up-front, I found much pleasure in starting small conversations with people around me like staff at shops or restaurants, instructors of workshops, etc. And sometimes these even led to some special treatment or me getting some helpful info I otherwise wouldn’t have not gotten.

* **Daily life**
    * When I came to Japan for the first time in 2015 I tried nattō, as you do, but was grossed out by the taste and unable to eat it, as many are. Since nattō is healthy and cheap though, I wanted to like it, so I tried it from time to time, maybe once or twice a year and gradually went from being able to eat it but not really liking it, to not minding the taste, to kinda sorta liking it.  
      Because what I had tried over the years was always the bog standard type with soy sauce, karashi mustard I set out to determine my nattō preferences. Bought lots of variants ([here just a few](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_21.jpg)) and can now say that I
        * like <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="nattō from large soy beans"><span class="inner">大粒</span></span></span>
        * am not a huge fan of <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="nattō from cut-up soy beans"><span class="inner">ひきわり</span></span></span>
        * prefer types with wasabi or plum <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="sauce"><span class="inner">タレ</span></span></span> over the standard soy sauce + karashi
        * like kimchi + nattō
        * am very aware of the fact that nattō being sold in packs of two to four doesn’t lend itself to trying out a large variety in a short time ^^
    * [anticipated](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_22.jpg) and [watched](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_23.jpg) Chainsaw Man and got myself a prime subscription on my amazon.co.jp account for the time for that
* **Events and activities**
    * Went to Kamakura to visit some <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="The 13 Lords of the Shogun"><span class="inner">鎌倉殿の13人</span></span></span> locations and [an exibition](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_24.jpg). While there ate my first <a href="/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_26.jpg"><span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="stuff baked and coated with miso"><span class="inner">田楽</span></span></span></a> which was incredibly delicious and had a [miso soup with a fig](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_25.jpg) which was super tasty as well.
    * Saw a [BOOKOFF mascot](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_27.jpg) in a store in Nagoya.
    * Visited the <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="Printing Museum, Tokyo"><span class="inner">印刷博物館</span></span></span> not [once](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_28.jpg) but [twice](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_29.jpg) for their letterpress printing workshop. The first time I went I chatted with one of the instructors and was given the tip that in a few weeks they’d do the workshop not with Latin alphabet movable type but with Japanese, so I immediately registered for that one as well. After that second workshop I then went through the normal exhibition, and there was approached by the same instructor—there’d be a special printing event in an hour because it’s the 150th anniversary of JR East and if I went to the reception now I could still get a pass for that. Thanks to that I then got to use an old [railway pass printing machine](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_30.jpg) and [dating device](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_31.jpg). :)
    * Went to Kanazawa/Toyama, ate delicious [sushi](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_33.jpg) and visited a [wooden sweet molds museum](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_34.jpg) as well as a [glass art gallery](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_35.jpg). Also the hotel there, [INTERGΛTE](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_32.jpg), inevitably caused strong [Stargate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Stargate_(franchise_logo).png) associations with the stylized “A” and <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stone_lantern"><span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="tōrō"><span class="inner">灯籠</span></span></span></a> on top of it which could as well depict a Goa'uld mothership above a pyramid.
    * Went to the [Google office](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_36.jpg) in Shibuya to meet a former [NII](/s/NII17) colleague for lunch.
    * Re-visited [丼太郎](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_37.jpg) which was a stone’s throw away from my place back in 2017/18.
* **Purchases**
    * Two [kanji games](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_38.jpg).
    * Some [ゆる言語学ラジオ merch](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_39.jpg).
    * Used 代金 as a payment method for an online purchase for the first time.

This second month almost concludes my stay. There’s only a few days left, but I’ll take that as an opportunity to add one more post and include a general look-back there.

On to the ... last few days. T\_T
