---
layout: post
title: "東京大学〔一〕"
img: utyo22_1.jpg
tags: japanese travel education programming research UTYO22
aid: aa360ef2
---

The yen is cheap, the 'rona is tamed, and the Japan is vast and full of opportunities!

In terms of daily life, work, and free time activities I’m faced with a constant stream of novelty as well as opportunities demanding to be prioritized, as there isn’t enough time to take them all. Below’s a list of what made the priority cut.

* **Daily life**
    * I transitioned from watching <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="The 13 Lords of the Shogun"><span class="inner">鎌倉殿の13人</span></span></span> online (back in Germany) to watching it [on TV](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_07.jpg). Following a TV show in Japan is a first for me (won’t miss the set airing time and lack of a pause function once I’m back in Germany though ^^).
    * I’m trying out different mask types, as there’s more variety than in Europe (where it’s basically a choice between medical and FFP2).
    * Got one of the [new 500 Yen](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_21.jpg) coins that’s around since the end of 2021.
* **Events and activities**
    * Did part of the [JR East Lego stamp rally](https://twitter.com/jre_legorally22) where you’d [collect Lego themed stamps](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_08.jpg) at different train stations in and around Tokyo and then get [a minifigure and some stickers](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_09.jpg).
    * Participated in a language exchange event that was lead by a [Lego serious play](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_10.jpg) instructor.
    * Went to a <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="Fujiwara Marina"><span class="inner">藤原 麻里菜</span></span></span> [exhibition](https://fujiwaram.com/archives/1243) and experienced [futile](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_11.jpg) [work](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_12.jpg).
    * Walked by a <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="Pop Team Epic"><span class="inner">ポプテピピック</span></span></span> [thingy](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_13.jpg).
    * Rode an [N700S](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_14.jpg) bullet train, which is in operation since July 2020 (shortly after I left Japan [last time](/a/87696676)). Also, saw the [Bullet Train movie](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_15.jpg) (after some [technical difficulties](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_16.jpg)). There even was plenty of advertisement [on the bullet train platforms](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_17.jpg).
    * Did some [hiking](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_18.jpg) with people from the lab (<span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="Mount Kintoki"><span class="inner">金時山</span></span></span>).
    * Met up with one of the other exchange students from [back in Matsuyama 2015](/s/MYJ15) who’s now doing a PhD in Kōbe.
* **Purchases**
    * [In 2019](/a/f29d4d64) I discovered browsing BOOKOFFs as a fun past time. A section I always take a look at is dictionaries, and on one of my visits this time I found a [新明解国語辞典](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_19.jpg) (English [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shin_Meikai_kokugo_jiten) article) in it’s forth edition (1989), which, especially in this and the fifth edition, is infamous for it’s unique definitions of words. So much so that there’s [a book](https://bookmeter.com/books/509393) about it, people discuss it [on podcasts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1-K5Is_PGBs), etc..
    * Bought a Thinkpad Trackpoint Keybard II for a more comfortable standing setup. (... and because the damn thing doesn’t give an option to swap Fn and Ctrl I now have Ctrl mapped to CapsLock. ... and since I already have Esc mapped to CapLock I now rely on [XCAPE](https://github.com/alols/xcape) for the double assignment)
    * Got a good deal on a pair of used Sony WH-1000XM4s because (1) cheap Yen, and (2) it was a model someone had originally purchased outside of Japan (i.e. the “power on”, “Bluetooth connected”, etc. clips it plays are in English instead of Japanese).
    * Had a [pair of glasses](/assets/img/blog/utyo22_add_20.jpg) made at Zoff in like 15 min for 5,500 Yen \**cries in Germany glasses prices*\*.

On to the next month!
