---
layout: post
title: "Two months 東京大学"
img: utokyo_2022.jpg
tags: japanese travel education programming research UTYO22
aid: 84c30cfa
---

Following up the two weeks [in Singapore](/a/c0291245) with two months in Japan. :)

As with Singapore, the trip is for a research collaboration, but I’ll mostly focus on the things aside from research here. This post will cover everything up until I entered Japan.

**Applying for travel grants**  
About half a year after I started my PhD COVID-19 hit. Not happy with the thought of finishing it without any international experience, I always kept an eye on possibilities to go abroad, in case travel would become possible again. In late 2021 I started preparation for applying to the [JSPS Summer Program](https://www.jsps.go.jp/english/e-summer/). Made out eight Japanese labs in the NLP area and ended up “cold e-mailing” four. Result: 1 ignore, 1 reject, and 2 positive replies. Decided on one, set up a research plan together with them, applied ... and got rejected.

Luckily I had access to a university internal funding program here that would allow for an arrangement similar to the JSPS Summer Program in terms of timing, length, and funding. So, re-cycled the research plan, adjusted everything to the different application forms and requirements, applied again ... and was accepted. :)

**VISA and immigration**  
The fact that my travel destination was Japan meant good and bad news. The bad news first: things would most likely be more of a hassle then if I had gone somewhere else. The reason being that Japan still is *quite* restrictive when it comes to inbound travel. The good news: Japan being this restrictive meant that me being on a business trip would allow me to enter the country *in the first place*.

The overall process looked as follows.

* Book a flight and a hotel for the first night to be able to provide details on my plan to enter the country (which flight, where I’ll stay, etc.)
* Provide this information and further details (passport copy etc.) to the host institute Japan, which then applies to the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare to approve my plan of entering the country
* The host institute receives an <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="Certificate for Completion of Registration to the ERFS system"><span class="inner">受付済証</span></span> and sends it to me (luckily in PDF form and not via snail mail, like CEFRs)
* Together with the <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="Certificate for Completion of Registration to the ERFS system"><span class="inner">受付済証</span></span> I apply for a visa as the Japanese consulate (which meant getting an appointment in time, hours of train rides b/c you have to submit your passport), wait, and then go there *again* to pick up my passport with the visa in it
* Install the MySOS app and register your travel plans, visa details, and vaccination certificates (app turns from red to yellow)
* Up to 72 hours before the flight, take a PCR test, have it return negative, *and* get the PCR test’s result in a format specified by the Japanese government
* Register the PCR test’s result in the MySOS app (turns from yellow to green or blue depending on where you travel from)
* Show the nice blue screen to get your boarding pass, show it to enter the plane, and then show it at immigration (here it get’s properly checked against your passport, etc.)
* Congratulations, you’re now in Japan :)

A nice little curiosity for me is, that I now have entered Japan on temporary visitor visa, which is a category I would otherwise probably not have been able to get due to the visa waiver regulation that applied to Germans entering Japan pre-COVID.

**(Not) getting COVID**  
Because I was going to Singapore, then back to Germany for less than a week, and then to Japan, I had to get my visa for Japan before going to Singapore.

<span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="Uni Tokyo"><span class="inner">東大</span></span>

first indirect meddling with 東大 through [NII](/s/NII17)

```
Created at: Fri, Jun 29, 2018 at 10:29 AM (Delivered after 7 seconds)
From:       Chikahiko SUZUKI <ch_suzuki@nii.ac.jp> Using DeepMail
To:         Jun HOMMA <homma@flxstyle.com>, tareksaier@gmail.com
Subject:    IIIF Curation Platformを利用した美術史教育への協力のお願い
[...]
IIIF Curaion Platformを利用して7月11日に東京大学で美術史の講義を行う計画を進めております。
お忙しい中とは思いますが、どうかご協力をお願いいたします。
```

* insert pre travel stuff
    * JSPS application
        * looking for host institution
    * KHYS application
    * visa stuff
        * category I wouldn’t have been able to get as a German before COVID
    * finding an accomodation
        * share house considerations
        * good monthly
    * getting COVID
    * going to Singapore [post](/a/c0291245)
    * back to Germany for less than a week [post](/a/885509ba)
    * ...
* on site
    * ...
* moar
    * look at 日記
