---
layout: post
title: "한극어 — 한자 help and HelloTalk hurdles"
img: korean_01.jpg
tags: korean education
aid: 742216f0
---

Quick update on Korean studies after roughtly 2 months.

After taking a proper look at [바른 한국어](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLUa1FE1E3AYs975HVvtSJbAGvHT0FwhlB) I completely switched to the series in favor of [seemile Korean](https://www.youtube.com/@seemile/playlists?view=50&sort=dd&shelf_id=10). Each lesson is packed with a considerable amount of new vocab, which is why it takes me quite a bit of time to go though each, as I put most of it into my Anki deck (currently at lesson 5-1).

One of the words introduced is 기숙사, which brings me to the first main point.

## 한자 help

Because I failed my <span class="mixlang"><span class="swap" swap="gisuksa (dormitory)"><span class="inner">기숙사</span></span></span> Anki card over and over again, I looked into the words origin. Turns out it’s 寄宿舎, which, if you pronounce it in Japanese, is „kishukusha”. Knowing that the word is quite easy to remember. After that I learned about [한자](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hanja) and, so far, got a few rules of thumb and resources that make vocab acquisition much easier.

Below are examples of a few words and the “requirements” to be able to make good use of 한자 if you know Japanese.

* 기숙사 → 寄宿舎
    * need to know the 한자 (b/c you’d say 寮 in Japanese)
* 우체국 → 郵遞局 → 郵逓局 (逓 as in 逓信 which iirc is origin of the 〒 symbol)
    * need to know the 한자 and how they map to Japanese Kanji
* 경찰 → 警察
    * need to know peculiar pronunciation mappings like -ㄹ ↔ -つ
* 시계 → 時計 / 건물 → 建物
    * need to resist 音読み

When adding new Anki cards, I currently use the following two websites.

* Translation: [kjjk.weblio.jp](https://kjjk.weblio.jp/)
* 한자 lookup: [hanja.dict.naver.com](https://hanja.dict.naver.com)

(Side note: in case someone’s aware of EPWING dictionaries for ko↔ja and or 한글→한자, let me know.)


## HelloTalk hurdles

Completely unrelated, I stumbled upon some weird behavior in the HelloTalk app. I set my learning language to Korean, and for some reason the my list of voice rooms appears to filter out Japanese⇄Korean rooms, while Korean only rooms as well as other mixed rooms such as Korean⇄French and Korean⇄Chinese are displayed.

I reported the problem to HelloTalk and for the mean time set up a second account on a different device as a Japanese speaker learning Korean. Problem is, this account for some reason got flagged for suspicious behavior after a day or two — although all I did was hang out in voice rooms. Well ... with a flagged account your prompted to add a phone number, which the device I run the account on does not have. Luckily, I found a way to get around the phone number prompt. On the off chance that this is useful to someone, here’s how to do it:

<video controls width="160" height="320">
  <source src="/assets/img/blog/fuhellotalk.webm" type="video/webm" />
  <source src="/assets/img/blog/fuhellotalk.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
  Download the
  <a href="/assets/img/blog/fuhellotalk.webm">WEBM</a>
  or
  <a href="/assets/img/blog/fuhellotalk.mp4">MP4</a>
  video.
</video>

‌  

Ending words regarding the bigger picture — progress is slower than I’d like, but I currently can’t afford to spend as much time on Korean as I’d like to. Hope I can report on some first tandem experiences in the next post.
